<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_j32_xxn_fq">
 <title>Variables for the Background Notification Service</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>As explained in the previous chapter, this Service requires some parameters in orde to be
   configured properly.</p>
  <p>Following parameters can be distinguished:</p>
  <p>
   <table frame="all" id="table_hkb_tyn_fq">
    <title/>
    <tgroup cols="2">
     <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
     <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.64*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
       <entry>Environment variable</entry>
       <entry>Description</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
      <row>
       <entry><b>BGNS_DOMAIN</b></entry>
       <entry>Specifies the DDS domain that is used for the Notification service.  Both client and
        server must set this correctly or the service will used id 0.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><b>BGNS_[SEC]PORT[6]</b></entry>
       <entry>Used by the server to specify the TCP port number on which the server is listening for
        incoming connections.  If set for the first time, a server for the notification service is
        started.  Either a valid port number should be specified for a dedicated TCP server, or @
        may be specified, which indicates a connection that is in-band, i.e. multiplexed on the
        connection of the DDS/TCP control channel server.</entry>
      </row>
      <row>
       <entry><b>BGNS_[SEC]SERVER[6]</b></entry>
       <entry>Used by the client to specify the TCP server URL of the remote Notification service.
        If set to @ the client connection will be in-band, i.e. multiplexed on the client connection
        of the DDS/TCP control channel.  Once this variable is set, the client will attempt to
        connect to the remote server.</entry>
      </row>
     </tbody>
    </tgroup>
   </table>
  </p>
  <note>The optional SEC prefix indicates that a secure TCP connection is needed for the server.</note>
  <note>The optional 6 suffix indicates that the TCP connection is over IPv6 instead of over IP.</note>
  <p><b>Examples</b></p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_BGNS_DOMAIN=7</b></p>
  <p>Set the DDS domain to 7 for the Background Notification service.</p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_BGNS_PORT=5500</b></p>
  <p>Start a dedicated Background Notification server on port 5500.</p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_BGNS_PORT=@</b></p>
  <p>Start a Background Notification server multiplexed with the DDS TCP control channel.</p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_BGNS_SERVER=www.technicolor.com/bgns:5500</b></p>
  <p>Start a dedicated Background Notification service to the server at the given URL on port
   5500.</p>
  <p><b>export TDDS_BGNS_SERVER=@</b></p>
  <p>Start a Background Notification client multiplexed with the DDS TCP control channel.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
